Update mysql-compatibility.md (#2790)
pingcap/docs: mysql-compatibility.md

---
title: Compatibility with MySQL
summary: Compares TiDB and MySQL in syntax and features.
category: reference
aliases: ['/docs/dev/reference/mysql-compatibility/']
---

# Compatibility with MySQL

TiDB is fully compatible with the MySQL 5.7 protocol and the common features and syntax of MySQL 5.7. The ecosystem tools for MySQL 5.7 (PHPMyAdmin, Navicat, MySQL Workbench, mysqldump, and Mydumper/myloader) and the MySQL client can be used for TiDB.

> TiDB is a distributed database. However, some features have not yet been implemented in TiDB or are only syntactically supported because these features are difficult for engineering or expected to have low output compared with the input.

Reviewer: @tangenta PTAL
```suggestion
However, some features of MySQL have not been implemented in the distributed database TiDB yet, or are only syntactically supported, because these features are difficult to implement or have low ROI (Return On Investment).
```

### Auto-increment ID

> + In TiDB, auto-increment columns are only guaranteed to be incremental and unique but are *not* guaranteed to be allocated sequentially. It is recommended that you do not mix default values and custom values. Otherwise, you might receive the `Duplicated Error` error message.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
+ In TiDB, auto-increment columns are only guaranteed to be incremental and unique but are *not* guaranteed to be allocated sequentially. It is recommended that you do not mix default values and custom values. Otherwise, you might encounter the `Duplicated Error` error message.
```

+ The implementation principle of the auto-increment ID in TiDB is that each tidb-server instance caches a section of ID values (currently 30,000 IDs are cached) for allocation. The number of cached IDs is determined by `AUTO_ID_CACHE`. Note that both the auto-increment columns and `_tidb_rowid` consume the cached IDs. If the `INSERT` statement requires that the number of consecutive IDs is greater than the `AUTO_ID_CACHE` value, the system automatically adjusts this value so that this statement can be executed.

+ You can use the `tidb_allow_remove_auto_inc` system variable to enable or disable the `AUTO_INCREMENT` column attribute. The syntax of removing the column attribute is `alter table modify` or `alter table change`.

> **Note:**
>
> + To use the `tidb_allow_remove_auto_inc` system variable, your TiDB version must be >= v2.1.18 or >= v3.0.4.

> > + The `AUTO_ID_CACHE` table attribute requires that your TiDB version >= v3.0.14 or >= v3.1.2 or >= v4.0.rc-2.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> + The `AUTO_ID_CACHE` table attribute requires that your TiDB version >= v3.0.14 or >= v3.1.2 or >= v4.0.0-rc.2.
```

> > + If you have not specify the primary key when creating a table, TiDB uses `_tidb_rowid` to identify the row. The allocation of this value shares an allocator with the auto-increment column (if such column exists). If you specify an auto-increment column as the primary key, TiDB uses this column to identify the row. In this situation, the following example might happen:

Reviewer: Grammar mistake.
```suggestion
> + If you have not specified the primary key when creating a table, TiDB uses `_tidb_rowid` to identify the row. The allocation of this value shares an allocator with the auto-increment column (if such a column exists). If you specify an auto-increment column as the primary key, TiDB uses this column to identify the row. In this situation, the following situation might happen:
```

Author: 😥

### Performance schema

> TiDB uses a combination of Prometheus and Grafana to store and query the performance monitoring metrics. The Performance schema is an empty schema.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
TiDB uses a combination of Prometheus and Grafana to store and query the performance monitoring metrics. Some performance schema tables return empty results in TiDB.
```

Author: Looks like I didn't understand this sentence...

> TiDB uses a combination of Prometheus and Grafana to store and query the performance monitoring metrics, so the Performance schema is an empty schema.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
TiDB uses a combination of Prometheus and Grafana to store and query the performance monitoring metrics. The Performance schema is an empty schema.
```

### Query Execution Plan

> The output format of Query Execution Plan (`EXPLAIN`/`EXPLAIN FOR`) in TiDB is greatly different from that in MySQL. In addition, the output content and the privileges setting of `EXPLAIN FOR` are also different from those of MySQL. See [Understand the Query Execution Plan](/query-execution-plan.md) for more details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The output format, output content, and the privilege setting of Query Execution Plan (`EXPLAIN`/`EXPLAIN FOR`) in TiDB is greatly different from those in MySQL. See [Understand the Query Execution Plan](/query-execution-plan.md) for more details.
```

### Built-in functions

TiDB supports most of the MySQL built-in functions, but not all. See [TiDB SQL Grammar](https://pingcap.github.io/sqlgram/#functioncallkeyword) for the supported functions.

### DDL

+ Add Index:
    - Does not support creating multiple indexes using a single SQL statement.

>     - Supports creating index of different types (HASH/BTREE/RTREE) only in syntax, but not applicable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Supports creating index of different types (HASH/BTREE/RTREE) only in syntax, not implemented yet.
```

>     - Supports the `VISIBLE`/`INVISIBLE` index and ignores other options.

Reviewer: I didn't see this line in [the latest Chinese version](https://pingcap.com/docs-cn/stable/mysql-compatibility/#ddl-%E7%9A%84%E9%99%90%E5%88%B6). @tangenta Please also take a look.
```suggestion
```

Reviewer 3: dev and 4.0 versions are different. See https://github.com/pingcap/docs/pull/2790#issuecomment-643077418. @lilin90

Reviewer: @yikeke Got it. Thanks!

+ Drop Column
    - Does not support dropping the `PRIMARY KEY` column or index column. Otherwise, the `Unsupported drop integer primary key/column a with index covered` error might be output.
+ Drop Primary Key
    - Only supports dropping the primary key of the tables with `alter-primary-key` enabled when the tables are created. Otherwise, the `Unsupported drop primary key when alter-primary-key is false` error might be output.
+ Order By
    - Ignores all options related to column ordering.
+ Change/Modify Column:
    - Does not support lossy changes, such as from `BIGINT` to `INTEGER` or from `VARCHAR(255)` to `VARCHAR(10)`. Otherwise, the `length %d is less than origin %d` error might be output.
    - Does not support modifying the precision of `DECIMAL` data types. Otherwise, the `can't change decimal column precision` error might be output.
    - Does not support changing the `UNSIGNED` attribute. Otherwise, the `can't change unsigned integer to signed or vice versa` error might be output.
    - Only supports changing the `CHARACTER SET` attribute from `utf8` to `utf8mb4`.
+ `LOCK [=] {DEFAULT|NONE|SHARED|EXCLUSIVE}`

>     - The syntax is supported, but is not applicable to TiDB. All DDL changes that are supported do not lock the table.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - The syntax is supported, but not implemented in TiDB yet. All DDL changes that are supported do not lock the table.
```

+ `ALGORITHM [=] {DEFAULT|INSTANT|INPLACE|COPY}`

>     - The syntax for `ALGORITHM=INSTANT` and `ALGORITHM=INPLACE` is fully supported, but it works differently from MySQL because some operations that are `INPLACE` in MySQL are `INSTANT` in TiDB.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - TiDB supports the `ALGORITHM=INSTANT` and `ALGORITHM=INPLACE` syntax, but they work differently from MySQL because some operations that are `INPLACE` in MySQL are `INSTANT` in TiDB.
```

>     - The syntax `ALGORITHM=COPY` is not applicable to TiDB and returns a warning.

Reviewer: Seems like wrong translation.
```suggestion
    - The syntax of `ALGORITHM=COPY` is supported, but not implemented in TiDB yet. It returns a warning.
```

+ Multiple operations cannot be completed in a single `ALTER TABLE` statement. For example, it is not possible to add multiple columns or indexes in a single statement. Otherwise, the `Unsupported multi schema change` error might be output.

+ The `AUTO_INCREMENT`, `CHARACTER SET`, `COLLATE`, and `COMMENT` Table Options are supported in syntax. The following Table Options are not supported in syntax:
    - `WITH/WITHOUT VALIDATION`
    - `SECONDARY_LOAD/SECONDARY_UNLOAD`
    - `CHECK/DROP CHECK`
    - `STATS_AUTO_RECALC/STATS_SAMPLE_PAGES`
    - `SECONDARY_ENGINE`
    - `ENCRYPTION`

> + The Table Partition supports Hash, Range, and Add/Drop/Truncate/Coalesce. The other partition operations are ignored. The `Warning: Unsupported partition type, treat as normal table` error might be output. The following Table Partition syntaxes are not supported:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
+ The Table Partition supports Hash, Range, and `Add`/`Drop`/`Truncate`/`Coalesce`. The other partition operations are ignored. The `Warning: Unsupported partition type, treat as normal table` error might be output. The following Table Partition syntaxes are not supported:
```

    - `PARTITION BY LIST`
    - `PARTITION BY KEY`
    - `SUBPARTITION`
    - `{CHECK|EXCHANGE|TRUNCATE|OPTIMIZE|REPAIR|IMPORT|DISCARD|REBUILD|REORGANIZE} PARTITION`

### Analyze table

[`ANALYZE TABLE`](/statistics.md#manual-collection) works differently in TiDB than in MySQL, in that it is a relatively lightweight and short-lived operation in MySQL/InnoDB, while in TiDB it completely rebuilds the statistics for a table and can take much longer to complete.

### Views

> Views in TiDB are currently non-insertable, non-updatable, and non-deletable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the views feature, TiDB does not support write operations like `UPDATE`, `INSERT`, and `DELETE`.
```

### Storage engines

> For compatibility reasons, TiDB supports the syntax to create tables with alternative storage engines. In actual implementation, TiDB describes the metadata as InnoDB storage engines.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For compatibility reasons, TiDB supports the syntax to create tables with alternative storage engines. In implementation, TiDB describes the metadata as the InnoDB storage engine.
```

> Architecturally, TiDB supports a similar storage engine abstraction to MySQL, and user tables are created in the engine specified by the [`--store`](/command-line-flags-for-tidb-configuration.md#--store) option used when you start TiDB server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
TiDB supports storage engine abstraction similar to MySQL, but you need to specify the storage engine using the [`--store`](/command-line-flags-for-tidb-configuration.md#--store) option when you start the TiDB server.
```

### SQL modes

> - The compatibility modes deprecated in MySQL 5.7 and removed in MySQL 8.0 are not supported (such as `ORACLE` and `POSTGRESQL`).

Reviewer: - Does not support the compatibility mode, such as `ORACLE` and `POSTGRESQL`. The compatibility mode is deprecated in MySQL 5.7 and removed in MySQL 8.0.

> - The `ONLY_FULL_GROUP_BY` mode has minor [semantic differences](/functions-and-operators/aggregate-group-by-functions.md#differences-from-mysql) to MySQL 5.7.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The `ONLY_FULL_GROUP_BY` mode has minor [semantic differences](/functions-and-operators/aggregate-group-by-functions.md#differences-from-mysql) from MySQL 5.7.
```

- The `NO_DIR_IN_CREATE` and `NO_ENGINE_SUBSTITUTION` SQL modes in MySQL are supported for compatibility, but are not applicable to TiDB.

### Default differences

- Default character set:
    - The default value in TiDB is `utf8mb4`.
    - The default value in MySQL 5.7 is `latin1`.
    - The default value in MySQL 8.0 is `utf8mb4`.
- Default collation:
    - The default collation of `utf8mb4` in TiDB is `utf8mb4_bin`.
    - The default collation of `utf8mb4` in MySQL 5.7 is `utf8mb4_general_ci`.
    - The default collation of `utf8mb4` in MySQL 8.0 is `utf8mb4_0900_ai_ci`.
- Default value of `foreign_key_checks`:
    - The default value in TiDB is `OFF` and currently TiDB only supports `OFF`.
    - The default value in MySQL 5.7 is `ON`.
- Default SQL mode:
    - The default SQL mode in TiDB includes these modes: `ONLY_FULL_GROUP_BY,STRICT_TRANS_TABLES,NO_ZERO_IN_DATE,NO_ZERO_DATE,ERROR_FOR_DIVISION_BY_ZERO,NO_AUTO_CREATE_USER,NO_ENGINE_SUBSTITUTION`.
    - The default SQL mode in MySQL:
        - The default SQL mode in MySQL 5.7 is the same as TiDB.

>         - The default SQL mode in MySQL 8.0 includes these modes: ``ONLY_FULL_GROUP_BY,STRICT_TRANS_TABLES,NO_ZERO_IN_DATE,NO_ZERO_DATE,ERROR_FOR_DIVISION_BY_ZERO,NO_ENGINE_SUBSTITUTION`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - The default SQL mode in MySQL 8.0 includes these modes: `ONLY_FULL_GROUP_BY,STRICT_TRANS_TABLES,NO_ZERO_IN_DATE,NO_ZERO_DATE,ERROR_FOR_DIVISION_BY_ZERO,NO_ENGINE_SUBSTITUTION`.
```

- Default value of `lower_case_table_names`:
    - The default value in TiDB is `2` and currently TiDB only supports `2`.
    - The default value in MySQL:
        - On Linux: `0`
        - On Windows: `1`
        - On macOS: `2`
- Default value of `explicit_defaults_for_timestamp`:
    - The default value in TiDB is `ON` and currently TiDB only supports `ON`.
    - The default value in MySQL:
        - For MySQL 5.7: `OFF`.
        - For MySQL 8.0: `ON`.

### Date and Time

#### Named timezone

> + TiDB uses all timezone rules currently installed in the system for calculation (usually the tzdata package). You can use all timezone names without importing the timezone table data. You cannot modify the calculation rules by importing the timezone table data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
+ TiDB uses all time zone rules currently installed in the system for calculation (usually the `tzdata` package). You can use all time zone names without importing the time zone table data. You cannot modify the calculation rules by importing the time zone table data.
```

> + MySQL uses the local timezone by default and relies on the current timezone rules built into the system (such as when to start daylight saving time) for calculation; and the timezone cannot be specified by the timezone name without [importing the timezone table data](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.0/en/time-zone-support.html#time-zone-installation).

Reviewer: @tangenta How about using the 5.7 link?
```suggestion
+ MySQL uses the local time zone by default and relies on the current time zone rules built into the system (such as when to start daylight saving time) for calculation; and the time zone cannot be specified by the time zone name without [importing the time zone table data](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.7/en/time-zone-support.html#time-zone-installation).
```

Reviewer 2: > @tangenta How about using the 5.7 link?

LGTM

> **Note:**
>

> > TiKV calculates time-related expressions that can be pushed down to it. This calculation uses the built-in timezone rule and does not depend on the timezone rule installed in the system. If the timezone rule installed in the system does not match the version of the built-in timezone rule in TiKV, the time data that can be inserted might result in a statement error in a few cases.

Reviewer: Why change `time zone` to `timezone`? Better keep it consistent with [that in MySQL](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.7/en/time-zone-support.html).
```suggestion
> TiKV calculates time-related expressions that can be pushed down to it. This calculation uses the built-in time zone rule and does not depend on the time zone rule installed in the system. If the time zone rule installed in the system does not match the version of the built-in time zone rule in TiKV, the time data that can be inserted might result in a statement error in a few cases.
```
